Let's head over to your details page and
let's make it a little bit
more interesting to work with.
No, we're not gonna do that,
we're gonna do pets first.
So let's go to pet.js.
So let's discuss a problem
that we have yet right now.
This is not a problem,
this is art right there.
[LAUGH]
So
on this page, if I click on Luna right
now, it will take me to the correct page,
but it's actually doing
a full page refresh.
I'm pretty sure it is.
That's it.
A good question, but
I think it is doing a full page refresh.
Now, what would be better and what would
allow us to worry less about is if
react router could take care
of all that stuff for us.
I don't think it always does
a full page refresh, but
I think it has the potential
to do a full page refresh,
which you don't wanna do if you're
doing a single page application.
So instead of using an a tag here,
what we wanna use is a link
component from react router.
So basically,
instead of this a here, oops,
I'm going to put a link and link.
And instead of saying href,
they want you to say to, Now,
the end result of what comes out of link
is still an anchor tag, an a tag, right?
But now,
it has a bunch of additional logic.
So for example, if I move this component
around, its relative path will always be
correct to whatever browser
router context it's in.
So one, that's a huge benefit.
And it handles a bunch of stuff with
relation to react router that we don't
have to worry about as long as we
use link texts instead of aText.
So now, if we go back over here and
refresh the page, go back to the homepage,
Notice that everything
still works the same.
If you look at it, it's still a a tag.
That's not coming up, but
you can trust me that it's an a tag.
Why is doing that?
That's unfun.
In any case, there we go.
So that's it.
As long as you're doing
internal links to your website,
just use the link
component instead of aText.
Notice here that I'm still
giving it a class name.
Whatever you do there,
it'll just pass along, so
you can absolutely give it an ID or
whatever you need to do there as well.
Okay, why are you upset?
This needs a key cuz I deleted it earlier.
Put it back, okay.
>> And about the link component-
>> Mm-hm.
>> So fundamentally,
what it's doing, it's just loading.
How do you describe
what it's doing really?
Again, just we're loading our subsequent
components, but not the main App js.
Cuz I think what we accomplished there
was we're not refreshing the whole
page, right?
We're refreshing-
>> All right, that part, yes.
So it's just gonna manage
the internal navigation for you and
you don't have to worry about it.
And probably just as importantly is,
right now, we only have one router and
one layer of nesting here,
which is honestly gonna be fairly
frequently the case for most of you.
But certainly,
if you had multiple different layers,
that could be problematic.
So it could handle all that stuff for
you as well.
Constructing the URLs, basically,
is what I'm trying to say.
Now, one thing that is a foot gun that
I'm just gonna put out there for you is,
let's say I had this h1 outside here, and
I wanted to put like a link tag in here.
I can't,
because outside of browser router.
So anytime that you're using a link tag,
it has to be inside a browser router,
yeah.
>> Are there times where you would
use an anchor tag instead of the link?
>> I mean,
if you're going to link to a third party,
that would be a good example of one to.
But internal to your app, probably not.
Yeah, none that I can think of.
Okay, let's go over to Details.js, and
here react router 6 now
only exposes a hooks API.
They used to have an older, you'd call
them higher order components sort of API,
and they just ditched it totally.
I have mixed feelings on that.
I'll leave it at that anyway.
So, but the hooks API is very nice.
So up here at the top,
I wanna say import ,
From react-router-dom.
And so what I'm trying to do here
is I wanna get that ID, right?
So if you go back and
look at your App.js, I want this, right?
How do I get that inside
of my Details route?
Well, if I go look at details,
I can say const (id) = useParams,
like that.
And it's a little magical,
right, a little black boxy here.
But because it's inside of a browser
router, it can say, I'm a route,
right, and
I can pull stuff out of my route.
So therefore,
this is just gonna automatically work.
So now, this will pull whatever
the id is off of useParams.
So instead of this,
just for fun, we can say id.
And now if we go back over to our Details
page and refresh here, notice this is 1,
This is 7, 9, right?
So this is matching whatever.
I mean, you can put literally
any thing you want here,
and it'll put that right there, right?
>> What about the exact keyword?
>> I believe the exact keyword went away.
That one I'd have to look up,
but that was in react router 5.
So there used to be
a thing with react router,
That if you wanted to only match
the homepage, you had to put exact
here to say, don't match things that have
subsequent matching sort of things here.
And I believe that went
away with react router 6,
because now it only matches one route
every time no matter what anywhere.
So we're gonna go back to adopt me.
So we're gonna go to the App.js here.
And we're gonna put
a link in here as well.
And we're gonna make
this h1 here clickable.
So I'm gonna put this in a header tag,
cuz why not?
We'll move this inside of here.
And we'll just, instead of having this
be an h1, we'll just make it a link.
And we'll just have this go
to the homepage, Like that.
So now, we'll have a clickable
header that users can use.
And I did change it from an h1
to a link tag, but that's fine.
I wrote the CSS, so it'll still work.